mama was an extraordinary ordinary
individual I've always been a pretty
fortunate person never had much time to
be lonely or to think too many gloomy
thoughts I've been blessed with lots of
family and I've always had plenty of
work that needed to be done she was a
hard worker I've seen her work in the
fields on this at the sight of the men
she did more heavy work in her lifetime
than probably 90% of the men though
there weren't many people in our little
town our house was always pretty full
there was my father Hugh and my mother
Esther Evelyn plus my 14 brothers and
sisters I have wondered how she
maintained self-confidence until I read
a letter from her mother who wrote I'm
so sorry you have such a hard life you
were always my favorite child
the sixth of 15 what a difference of
love makes so thinking back I got no
reason to complain none at all
I've always been blessed she was very
opinionated she was very forthright in
telling you what she thought as she was
just a very strong-willed woman did you
folks
what are they raised on the farm in
addition to you tobacco and corn wheat
little cane little cane
never had much time to read always being
busy with farm and all so it's funny how
a magazine article changed my life it
was a National Geographic article about
the Appalachian Trail and the writer
said no woman had ever hiked the trail
by herself before I kept thinking why
not me why couldn't I be the first one
I'd walk places all my life so how hard
could it be no woman had done this and
no one had ever hiked the trail from one
end to the other in one season I've had
friends say she was well ahead of her
time and and when you really think about
it well maybe she was since I didn't
want anyone to tell me this was a
foolish idea I kept quiet about what I
was gonna do then well the next morning
I just started hiking grandma Gatewood
she's the lady who hiked with a shower
curtain and a wool blanket now we got
Cuban fiber and gore-tex and she had
kids in a wool blanket she started at
Mount Allah Thorpe in April and she
wound up on Mount Katahdin in October
mama loved to sing and when she reached
the top of Mount Katahdin was she
climbed three times she's saying America
the Beautiful that to us her children
grandma Gatewood was just mama nope
don't you worry about us Annie not at
all